I remember when we (Mikeal, Jan, myself, and maybe Claire) were first opening the Couch.IO offices and we went to IKEA to pick out the office furniture. These days you would never have engineers do something like that unless you were truly scrappy, but at the time an office was a necessity and it turned out to be worth it because of all the fun community stuff it gave us a chance to host. 

So we're walking through IKEA getting those bouncy recliners and filing cabinets and little tables for the phones and desks and laptop stands and chairs and everything we'd need to get the office kicked off without having to go back again. And we finished our list and we made it to that room at the end where you pick out all the stuff from the big shelves based on what you wrote down during your trip through the showroom. We had everything and we were ready to leave and on the way out through the last aisle we found on its side more or less unlabeled the perfect red couch that looked just like the CouchDB logo. 

I was feeling responsible so I thought maybe we shouldn't impulse buy a couch just because it looks like the logo. But I'm pretty sure Mikeal's attitude toward it that we were so lucky to have found a couch like that and we couldn't even think of bypassing the opportunity got me to hold my tongue and go ahead and add the couch to the order. It turned out to be the right choice as the centerpiece of our humble downtown Oakland office where we had all kinds of distinguished guests. So thanks for being the one to understand the value of spontaneity and seizing the day.
