There was an East Bay Hacker News meetup around 2010 I believe (I think that was it). At some point several CouchDB folks met at http://www.jupiterbeer.com/ and then maybe wandered over to another cafe that has since closed. I'd moved back to Berkeley from Chicago in the previous year and tagged along to a few meetups but only really made a connection when Mikeal joined one. I remember Mikeal giving me a CouchDB t-shirt and feeling included for the first time in a tech-oriented group. He asked about the random C++ stuff I had done in Chicago and offering genuine insights about life and programming languages.

I went to the one of the first NodeJS confs (looks like it was NodeConf 2013 - was working at Intuit on the peninsula at the time on iOS apps) just out of curiosity knowing Mikeal was organizing it. It was eye-opening to what a thoughtful community could be. I was not much of an outdoors person, but a lot of the sessions stuck with me and came up later throughout my life and career. (The streams one, one on creating NPM packages, might've been early hints of async/await, at this point JavaScript was still a bit fringe-worthy, and yet it was a fascinating, independently organizing world that worked well. I also remember being blown away about the Star Wars universe. Anyway, I barely knew the first thing about JavaScript really - but I felt very included all the same. I knew I'd find my way to web development at some point.)

Years later I've been working at bigger tech company now for the past 6 years or so, and mid-way moved from iOS to web apps. We've shipped a lot of them. Our little team of 6 people uses mostly only JavaScript/TypeScript (despite the Java-based web stacks that are officially supported). We have a pretty big impact I think because we stick with more modern web frameworks (some of it is other team members and their leadership, a lot of it is NodeConf as an early seed).

I feel lucky to learn from Mikeal once again re: Buddhism in these Cancer diaries. I wish it were under better circumstances. I have some parallels in my life too - have a young daughter now (and fwiw a Tesla). And I find myself dealing with crazy bureaucracy here in there (sympathize with that insurance story).

I'm sure there are many people like me who have interacted with Mikeal through the years (he might not even remember us :) ). And our lives have been oriented and pushed towards a better place. He's a good vector! I appreciate him being ahead of the curve in so many ways and how he helped welcome and guide the community (esp. for us newer folks). Just wanted to register and say thank you!
