Busy day.

Had an excellent breakfast at Green Gulch but had to leave by 8 to make it to the oncologist. Anna and I met with him and he seems quite good, and the center he is in appeals to me as well.

The primary next step is a biopsy to determine exactly what this is.

There's many other tests to perform, but getting them approved by insurance may require a biopsy so that's a "blocker" in programmer speak.

After we left and ate I went straight to the lab for more blood tests because they won't allow us to even schedule the biopsy until the labs are back, another blocker.

No new prescriptions or instructions, so nothing new to manage or integrate yet.

I tried to charge the rental car twice but both times the car failed to take a charge, and without enough of a charge remaining to even return it to the rental location we went to another location in order to swap cars, and i'm back to burning fossil fuels for a day.

I made it back to Green Gulch for dinner. I hadn't had a good bowel movement in months, maybe even a year, but after the first dinner here, and again after breakfast, things are moving again. Everything is prepared fresh from the farm so the greens are sweet, never bitter. I've never liked beets, but the beets here are excellent! Not trying to turn this into a food blog, and the center probably doesn't want any food tourists, but it's incredible how much food like this can change your health and I desperately needed that.

I was able to spend a little time with Kora today but we still haven't found a way to explain the severity of the situation without more information. I'll have a lot more time over with the weekend and hopefully we can get to a good place. It amazes me how understanding she seems to be about her Dad not staying at home, not something you'd expect from a six year old.

Had a good call with my mother and received a lot of supportive texts after I made the last post public.

I was finally able to sit in the zendo, my first as a resident, but I had to take leave after the first 40 minute session. My body was fine during the sit, but when i got up and started walking i realized that gas had built up, and even more concerning that the pain from that was the possibility of farting in the zendo so i came back to room, stretched, and did some more sitting.
