Today was mostly road-tripping with the family, so not much to say since I'm not gonna talk about my family here. Instead, i wrote up a few things that I'm putting in a new section called "ongoing" which is a place for me to put ongoing projects/stories that I won't have time to finish. You won't see any tech projects there, cause there's already plenty of programmers doing tech projects.

I'm writing two today, that are also copied below. The first is an ongoing saga with Tesla regarding our ill-fated ["Model X"](../ongoing/model-x.md) which was totalled before Father's day but is somehow still in an insane limbo between Tesla entities (Finance and Insurance).

The second is more important, it's about a hidden source of the Dharma I've discovered. Working through theories that involve pre-history are difficult if not impossible for full time scholars, so I doubt I'll ever be able to finish it. It invovles the ["Uttakuru" and the "Vedda/Veda"](../ongoing/uttakuru-vedda.md) which I believe are the same people.

# Model X Saga

I bought a Model X after the Filecoin launch because I figured one big purchase was worth it, and I've never owned a "luxury" car. I won't even get into the unfortunate things that happened before it was totalled (the front bumper was damaged in a parking lot hit and run, and then the whole side of that bumper and the sensor were hit in another hit and run in which i was driving and the car hit me on purpose and then sped into the tunnel to Oakland).

A few weeks before Father's day my wife was driving and thought the auto-pilot was engaged but apparently it wasn't. The car veered down an un-even road into a very well established pole. She wasn't going very fast, nobody was seriously injured, but since that car is very heavy and the pole did not move a millemeter the car was totalled.

The police advised that we send it to a tow yard that charges something like a thousand a week. Even thought insurance is suppose to eventually pay for that, i'm sure they find a way to make us eat some if not all of it, so Anna dilligently called around to find someone to repair it, finally finding someone that advised she just get into the tow yard and take pictures to send to insurance because if it's totally there will be extra tow fees to and from the repair shop. The first time she went to the yard they claimed she wasn't allowed to go back and get pictures, after we found out that's a lie, probably part of some tow yard scam, she went back and was able to get in to get pictures.

After Tesla got the pictures they said, ya, it's totalled.

Now, this is:
1. A car made by Tesla.
2. Under a lease from Tesla Finance.
3. With Tesla Insurance.

You would think this could be resolved quickly... but it is still not resolved.

Endless back and forth to first certify its a total loss, then about exactly how much it's worth, and now about how to send us the difference and who should pay (we received a check from Tesla Insurance they actually put a stop payment on and pointed the finger at Tesla Finance instead).

And during all of this, the systems at Tesla don't seem to understand the car is totalled. I get automated and actual person calls on my voicemail to resolve the fact that we aren't paying the lease, and they recently sent certified mail saying they will be "reposessing the car" (good luck!).

The degree to which the right hand doesn't know what the left is doing is absurd. I'm used to companies wasting my time in order to make more money, but this is actually wasting a lot of **their** time.

At this point their best advise is to ignore the notifications and other messages about the car :/

# Uttakuru and the Vedda/Veda

Pre-history (before the year zero) is difficult to even consider "history" in that we don't have much means of verification. Very little is preserved. We did up old stuff and tell stories about it, and we try to align those stories with the earliest stories humans kept about the world the they lived in.

The academic world knows this and has come up with an interesting approach. Since not much can be verified by the methods of later history they tend to leave existing academic consensus unchanged, even though that consensus is not built from a more rigorous method of verification that what is available today. It's a conservative stance of safety, and as we do dig up more and learn more the academic consensus starts looking more and more absurd. This is why you have shows like [Ancient Apacalypse](https://www.netflix.com/title/81211003) challenging that consensus, and many people are convinced because at least shows like that are acknowledging what is obvious about what we've dug up from pre-history. Before moving on, I should say that I find the actual thesis of that show uncompelling. It asserts that there is an ancient civilization that died out and was highly advanced, I don't think this is the case, as I'll say here, I think that at least one, potentially more, early and advanced societies existed but their ideas and knowledge spread and eventually merged into the rest of human culture. The places they used to live were either consumed by rising tides (because they were **all** island based societies) or they integrated into the rest of the cultures that came into contact with them.

Here we go.

## King Mandhātṛ

Around 20,000BC a lot of ice starts melting. Over the next 15-20K years this results in submertion of many islands the "closing" of many land bridges.

The period between 20,000BC and 15,000BC is the most dramatic. In India (then referred to as the "continent" of Jampudvipa) where the earliest spiritual traditions are formed, the mountains in the north were un-passable due to the ice. As that melts, it floods the plains below and displaces people is waves over thousands of years. 

Many early religions record stories of historic floods that seek to encapsulate the devestation and movement of people. While this isn't a flood story, I believe it is a story driven by these floods, the story of King Mandhātṛ.

I'm not sure the source, but I've read in multiple places that his reign is dated ~15,000BC. Many consider him to be a fictional person.

In India, the earliest stories are called the ["Vedas"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedas). These stories arekept as oral tradition so early that they may be the earliest known use of narrative/story as a technology.

Since they are transmitted as oral tradition for so long different traditions end up with different Vedas. By the time they are recorded they contain many of the same stories but are each quite different, often due to hundreds of years between them being written down.

In the various Hindu texts, there are mentions of a "King Mandhātṛ."
* Vedas (Ṛgveda, Yajurveda, Sāmaveda, Atharvaveda)
  * Depending on the recording and Veda, it tends to confirm he was a King.
  * He is described as "self-sufficient" and someone whose reign is marked by prosperity and strength. This hymn positions him as an exemplary king who upheld dharma and received divine favor.
* Later Hindu works have a more detailed story that goes like this:

King Mandhātṛ sought true "soverignty" (more on this later). In order to realize this he sets about conquering the world. First Jampudvipa and then the other continents, until landing at a final continent.

He ends up not being able to conquer these people, even though they are a tiny island. Stories differ, but in being unable to conquer them he has a spiritual awakening. Some then go on to say that he brings back many Uttakuru and he gives them the lands in the north, the mountains that are becoming passable, the forests below that are now becoming passable, and the "island" beyond which is called "Uttakuru." You can see how, over time, the mythology of Uttakuru being "given" this island and this being noted as the place his journey ends get mixed up and Lanka is probably more accurate.

Which continent this is changes as Indian understanding of their geography changes, and this gets very mixed up.

In the early tales, he lands in "Uttakuru", which in Indian Cosmology is "an island beyond the norther mountains." Of course, China is beyond the northen mountains, but if you were in India looking up at un-passable mountains you'd probably figure that beyond them is something like what you see in the south, water and more islands.

In later tales he is in Lanka (now called Sri Lanka), and this makes the most sense, as the region in and near the mountains is at one time referred to as "Uttakuru" after this story takes place and that land is "given" to them.

## The Vedda

[The Vedda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedda) are the native people of Sri Lanka, who arrive there 40,000–35,000 years ago.

To understand what may have happened with these people and people who inhabit other islands pre-20,000BC is perhaps best explainable with Conway's Game of life. This simulation shows the expansion and eventual conflict of "cells" as they emerge. As they run out of space, they die off. Human conflict is typically about such conflicts, but as we know from our own history times of violence are often followed by times of peace if you're forced to all live in the same place.

What I think happened in Sri Lanka, and other islands that may have been inhabited in this period, is that they eventually stopped all that violence and learned to live together. Along the way, they would have had to create a lot of new things in order to take advantage of unused space and avoid conflict, The "lost culture" so many are looking for is probably a bunch a cultures from islands like this, because elsewhere the moment there is conflict you just start walking until you find somewhere uninhabited that looks like you can live there in roughtly the same way you had before.

Historically, the Vedda are three distinct people that live in concentric circles around the island.
* A nomadic cave dwelling people in the mountain
* A forest dwelling people in the forests beneath the mountain
* And a coastal people that fish and work the water.
  * Sri Lankan boat building goes back thousands of years and is assumed to be influenced by India but I believe they were building small vessels earlier, perhaps earlier than any other civilization in the Indian ocean.

The Vedda's native belief system is a form of what academics call [animism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animism) which is what we've come to identify with early native peoples in nearly all the islands in the indian ocean and the native people's of the Americas. As Buddhism, Hinduism, and other religions come in from other places the Vedda's native belief systems merge with them to some degree.

The main body of reseach I have yet to complete, is tracing how/why/when early peoples settled in the other islands of the Indian Ocean and the Americas. While we have a well established mythology that the migration of native peoples was primarily by land bridge, we have evidence of incredibly early native peoples in many islands of the Indian ocean and also know of many waves of violence in the mainland that drive mainlanders into the islands, often displacing the native peoples. If they had arrive by boat, they would likely flee by boat, and if you aren't lucky enough to arrive at another small island the ocean will take you all the way to the Americas, if you survive. Most wouldn't survive, but **many** people were displaced over the course of thousands of years and as my friend Dominic Tarr once noted on a one-many homemade boat trip to the most remote of the islands around New Zealand, if he missed the island he'd end up in South America.

But even without going all the way to the Americas, there are incredible similarities between these people and the native peoples of other islands to the extent that we have any record of them at all. The native people of Japan are called the ["Ainu" and are said to have descended from the indigenous Japanese hunter-gatherers who lived in Japan during the Jōmon period (c. 14,000 to 300 BCE).](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ainu_people).

Native peoples often do not have recorded history and western scholars don't consider most of their oral tradition to be sufficient to establish truth, so they leave truth to the stories of the victors that record their history of conquest.

## The Story of King Mandhātṛ (My Version)

King Mandhātṛ, like all "good kings," protected his people as he would his own body.

As floods causes more displacement, the surrounding kingdoms turned to violence. As Mandhātṛ defeated these kingdoms he continued to take the role protectorate of their people as well, but the larger his kingdom grew the more difficult it became to protect.

Mandhātṛ realized that the only way to be truly soverign as such a protectorate was to extend his kingdom to all people and all places, and so he did just that. He conquered the known world a continent at a time, leaving the smallest for last.

When Mandhātṛ arrived on this island he did not face an army. Mandhātṛ brought his army to people's of this island and told him that he was now their king, their protectorate, their soverign. And the people of this island stared at him in confusion.

The people of this island needed no King, no protectorate, as their beliefs had already made each one of them sovereign. At this, King Mandhātṛ had an awakening and learned what true soverignty meant.

King Mandhātṛ returned to Jampudvipa (India) and he gave to the people of this island what he considered the future:

* The mountains, for the mountain nomads.
* The forests, for the forest dwellers.
* And whatever island lie beyond to the sea dwellers.

For thousands of years these people, and the lands in the north of Jampudvipa, were called "Uttakuru" which translates to "Northern Doer" as these people, and not the people of Jampudvipa, were most suited to do something with these lands.

---

* The native religion of the Himalayan mountains is called [Bön](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bon) and the Tibetan people believe it has been there for ~14,000 years (and western scholars strongly disagree).
* Because these stories are from such an early time in history, there's no documented source for the word "Veda" that we see for the Vedas. Name and form appear together, and this technology of story telling carries on a tradition from somewhere. Knowing the native people of Sri Lanka are called "Vedda" is hard to ignore.
* In ~500BC, when Sidhartha enters the Aesthetic forest, where they've created all manor of tools and devices for spiritual development, these would be also decendents of the "Kuru."

